In the previous video we already learn about
the concept of block subnet.
Next in this video, we are going to learn
about networking devices.
In the computer network, we will need some
device to build a computer network it self.
The main devices that we need to build a computer
network is switch and router.
Actually there are many other devices that
we will need in computer network, like firewall,
access point, wirelss controller, and others.
But in this course, we will learn about this
two first, which is switch and router.
Switch is used to connecting many computer
that is in the same block subnet.
And router is used to connecting many computer
that is in the different block subnet.
If you remember in the previous video, I show
you that if 2 pc in the different block subnet,
that 2 pc can not communicate each others.
So here if here we have 2 pc, the ip address
of pc 1 is 10.10.10.10/27, and the ip address
of pc 2 is 10.10.10.60.
Here we can see that pc 1 is in the first block
subnet.
And pc 2 is in the second block subnet.
In this case, pc 1 can not communicate with
pc 2.
But if the ip address of pc 2 also in the first
block subnet, let’s say 20, this two pc
will able to communicate each others.
Okay, now let’s learn more about switch.
Remember that switch is used to connecting
many pc that is in the same block subnet.
In the previous case, we only have 2 pc, but
how if we also have pc 3 and pc 4,
how if we have 100 pc?
This is why we need a switch.
So here we can put a switch, and then all
of computer can connect to the switch.
How many computer can connect to the switch?
This is based on the port in the switch, some
switch have 24 port, and some other switch
have 48 port.
All of this pc that connected to the same
switch, must be in the same block subnet,
so all of pc can communicate each others.
Let’s say we use ip address 10.10.10.x,
the x will be replaced for each computer.
Let’s say for pc 1 the ip address is 10.10.10.2,
pc 2 10.10.10.3, pc 3 10.10.10.4, pc 4 10.10.10.5,
and let’s say here we use ip address 10.10.10.50.
In this case, pc 1 until pc 4 will able to communicate
each others.
But pc 5 can not communicate with pc 1 until
pc 4.
Why?
Because pc 1 until pc 4 is in the same block
subnet, which is first block subnet.
But pc 5 is in the different block subnet,
which is second block subnet.
Okay, so that is the function of switch, which
is connecting many computer that in the same
block subnet.
Now let’s learn about router, router is
used to connecting many pc in the different
block subnet.
Now let’s change this first, let’s say
we will use 10, and here let’s say we will
use 20 and 25.
Okay so all of this pc is in the first block
subnet.
Let’s say this is room number 1, now let’s
draw for room number 2.
Here we also have a switch and have some pc
that connected to the switch.
For all pc in the room number 2, we will use
second block subnet.
Here we use 10.10.10.35, remember that 35
is in the second block subnet.
And here we use 40, 41, 42,43, and let’s
say 50.
Here all pc in the room number 1 will be able
to communicate each others, and all pc in
the room number 2 will also able to communicate
each others.
But the question is, how to communicate with
different room?
Let’ say we want to communicate between
pc in the room 1 and room 2.
To do this, we will need a router.
Okay so here I draw a router.
And we need to connecting switch in the room
number 1 to the router, also switch in the
room number 2 to the router.
Okay, now all pc in the room number 1 will
able to communicate with all pc in the room
number 2.
The summary is that switch is used to connecting
many pc in the same block subnet,
while router is used to connecting many pc in the different
block subnet.
I think enough for this video, I hope you
now understand the function of switch and
router.
In the next video we are going to practice
about switch and router in cisco packet tracer.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!